1. Give an informal de?nition of database as used in the expression “relational database management system.”

* An RDBMS is a database management system based on a relational model (a semantic for representing data), which in turn is based on two mathematical branches: set theory and predicate logic.

2. Give an informal de?nition of database as used in the expression “Human Resources database.”

* A collection of data that manages relational data of people.

3. Give an informal de?nition of entity integrity.

* Enforced by candidate keys. It prevents more than one occurrence of the same row, by assigning a primary candidate key to define a row, and all other relational data is assigned alt candidate keys. 

4. Give an informal de?nition of referential integrity.

* Enforced by forced by foreign keys. Its keeps referencing relational data to that defined under the primary key.

5. What is a relation as de?ned in the textbook? A one-word answer to this question is su?cient.

* Representation

6. Is this table in ?rst normal form? Why or why not? If it is not, how would you change it?

* No, because facCreds is dependent on facName

7. Is this table in second normal form? Why or why not? If it is not, how would you change it?

* No, because not all foreign key points to the primary keys. 

8. Is this table in third normal form? Why or why not? If it is not, how would you change it?

* No, its in first normal form. 
Page 1, Revised on December 27, 2017 by Charles Carter
9. What is an OLTP database? What operations is it optimized for?

* Data entry in a relational model. Inserting and deleting data. 

10. What is a star schema? What operations is it optimized for?

* The simplest data warehouse design. Data-retrieval need

Homework 2A

1.  What is a primary key constraint? What two other constraints is it equivilent to?
    
* A primary-key constraint enforces the uniqueness of rows and disallows NULLS in the constraint attributes.  

2. What is a nullability constraint? What does it prevent?

* Must assign a value. 

3. What is a unique constraint? What does it prevent?

* A unique constraint enforces the uniqueness of rows allowing you to implement the concept alternate keys from the relational model in your database. 

4.  What is a foreign key constraint? What does it allow?

* A foreign key reinforces referential integrity. This constraint is defined on one or more attributes in what is called the reference table and points to the points to candidate key. (Primary-key or unique-constraint) attributes in what’s called the referenced table. 

5. What is a check constraint? What does it allow?

* Defines a predicate that a row must meet to be entered the table or to be modified. Predicate returns either true or false. 

6. What is a default constraint? What does it allow?

* Associated with a particular attribute, its an expression used as the default value when an explicit value is not specified. 
       
7. What is domain integrity? This is not in your text book, but it’s important.
       
8. What is the di?erence between the where and the having clauses? How are they alike?

* The WHERE clause filters rows returned by the FROM clause, whereas the HAVING clause is a group filter. They both evaluate to TRUE,
        
9. What SQL operator has the highest precedence? What SQL operator has the lowest precedence?

* FORM clause, ORDER clause

10. Yes or no: In the SQL standard, is NULL equal to NULL? Why or why not?

* NO, no it is equal to the unknown,

Homework T-SQL 

Homework 420 2B

Rory Millington

1. List the order of execution of a SQL query.

FROM, WHERE, GROUP BY, HAVING, SELECT(Expressions, DISTINCT) ORDER BY, TOP/OFFSET-FETCH

2. What does the from clause do?
	
First clause that is logically processed.

3. What does the where clause do?

Specifies a predicate of logical expression to filter the rows returned by the FROM clause.	

4. What does the group by clause do?

Arrange the rows returned by the previous logical query processing phase in groups.	

5. What does the having clause do?

Group filter thats queries only evaluate to True	

6. What does the select clause do?

Specifies attributes (columns) you want to return in the result table of inquery.	

7. What does the distinct keyword do?

If you want to handle only distinct occurrences of known values, specify the DISTINCT keyword before 
the input expression to the aggregate function.
	
8. What does the order by clause do?

You use the ORDER BY clause to sort the rows in the output for presentation purposes. In terms of 
logical query processing, ORDER BY is the very last clause to be processed.

9. What does the limit clause do? This is not in the book.

10. What does the top clause do?

Limit amount of data sorted. i.e top 5% not ANSCI.

The TOP filter is a proprietary T-SQL feature you can use to limit the number or percentage of rows your query returns.

11. What do the o?set ...fetch ... clauses do?

The OFFSET-FETCH filter is considered an extension to the ORDER BY clause. With the OFFSET clause you indicate how many rows to skip, and with the FETCH clause you indicate how many rows to filter after the skipped rows.
Pic and Chose.

Homework 420 CH 2C

Rory Millington

1. What is a data type? Why do we have data types?

Storage location for characters.

2. What is a collation? Name four elements of a collation.

Collation is a property of character data that encapsulates several aspects: language support, sort order, case sensitivity, accent sensitivity, and more.

3. How would you strip whitespace from a string? For example, suppose you had “ Dave ” but wanted only “Dave”. R Trim L Trim

4. Suppose you wanted to make a list of every college and university that was called an Institute from the college table. Write the query.

Select from college or university where the name includes institute. Select name from college LIKE

5. How would you ?nd out the index of the ?rst space in a string? For example, the index of the ?rst space in “Barack Hussein Obama” would be 7.

Count the spacing. CHARINDEX 2 parameter. What your looking for. 

6. How would you select just the ?rst name in a list of the presidents. First names can be an arbitrary length, from 
“Cal” to “Benjamin.”

SELECT SUBSTRING(3 Parameters) CHARINDEX returns the interger. Presidents Name, First position, find space. 

7. Payments are due exactly 30 days from the date of the last function. Write a select query that calculates 
the date of the next payment. Pretend we want to update a column in a database that contains the date of the next

DATE ADD Function 


payment. We will do this when we write UPDATE queries.



8. Suppose your son or daughter wants to run a query every day that tells them the number of days until their 16th
birthday. Write a select query that does this.


9. What function returns the current date? This is very useful in a table that maintains a log of events, such as user 
logins.


